---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---

# Browser Extension Making Experience
I thought it was a nifty challenge, but I did have some JS/Manifest/Permissions issues that were ripping my hair out worthy.   

Working as a group made me recall why I never love working in a group. For collaboration issues, I just never loved working with others that are working over me. Where people might be working on code or some implementation. And eventually the group does less work than what could have been possible. But, trying to communicate as a group was fairly easy, thanks to Facebook (messenger).   

For the code, I really just tried and powered thorough to make a minimum viable product. And personally from idea to current incarnation, I did just carry my team. Did I apprecaite their moral support? Of course, but I feel there needs to be a coding equivalent for Google Drive (Sheets, Docs, and Slides).    

For decision making, as a group of 3, as long as someone else supported the idea, it was incorperated. This simple majority in decision making is due to the current small size of the borwser extension project.   

# JS Issues
Vanilla JS just happens to be a fairly pared back in functionality, in fact it was so pared back, that at the last minute I had to use a completely new implementation based on a semi-translucent div.   

# Manifest Issues and Permissions Issues
This took so much effort as we were just trying to get a mouse click on the icon to apply the effect, but since just making the manifest took so much effort, that we just soon just tried to pare back our project to a more bare bones minimum viable product such that it would just always load in the browser until removed.   

# Group/Collab Comments
Really, I personally am never a fan of group work, as I feel the work that can be made in a group could be made by a single person in just a bit more time. Especailly as there are no great tools for people to contibute at the same time without stepping over each other, especially in the early days of a project. Also, it doesn't help when the best means of version control collaboratively is something like github, which can't reasonably provide real time version and editing control like Google Docs or Office Online can provide.   

When we first created the project, if we worked together to make it, we might have large marge requests issues, so we had one person make the bare bones prototype. Which would then be filled in by each person for their portion of the project. This was supposed to be how ours worked, but really the struggles we faced as a group, just led to me making a late night minimum viable product.   

