---
layout: post
title: Week 5
---

# Christos' Presentation Reflection
### General
The presentation helped me see what other services Mozilla provides. I had only known about Mozilla, as the makers of Firefox (browser and OS), and Thunderbird (email client). It was neat learning about what projects Firefox was working towards.
### New Things
It was interesting about learning about Mozilla working on speach to text, and training its own AI model to provide an open source alternative to Amazon, Apple, Google, and Microsoft. I also found it interesting the Mozilla was working on WebVR, as the technology is neat, but in my own opinion, we are still pretty far away hardware performance wise to deliver a quality virtual reality experience.
### Mission
The mission from an arms length distance is humble, and seems to be of a company that values its users. Protecting users privacy is great, and make me trust Mozilla. But, from a business agility and capability perspective, makes Mozilla limited in what it can do. Privacy is great, but without user identification, and using user data to predict what users plan to do, it makes it easier to switch to a competing service that offers functionailty that users expect. The user data acts as glue, or make a service sticky. Furthermore, for some applications invading user privacy is needed to deliver user expectations. One example of this is just web translation, in Chrome, Google will automatically translate. Whereas in Firefox, by protecting users data, (and also due to the lack of a similar service by Mozilla) if your a Firefox user, you must use a third party add-on to load a Google translate-d form of a webpage.

# Project
### License
The license for Bootstrap is the MIT License. This license allows prople to download it, use it, modify it how ever the user wants. The license even allows people to license to others, and even sell software copies of this code, and code derivatives. The license though does require people to include the same MIT License for the code provided. But, the license would only apply to the code provided, if you make changes/additions/deletions atop a closed source "Bootstrap", you can have a different license for the modified parts. 

Also the license indicated that the user is responsible for their own use. The copyright holder doesn't deal with any issues that some users may have, like legal or technical issues.

### Installing
On cloning, it took a moment, and that took me a back, but I should have expected this time to download and resolve the deltas, as the repo was fairly large.

In getting it to work, was easy, but I feel could have been even easier, especially as a contributor. The default way to use bootstrap is to call to the BootstrapCDN, which makes it very easy to start using it, as interested people don't even need to download anything. The Bootstrap files are served as the site is accessed!

But, personally, as I know a touch of HTML/CSS, it wasn't much effort to figure out how to call the CSS and JS files that were part of the actual distribution. But, the docs could provide how to link to local bootstrap files, in their getting started.

### Contributions
Working on [issue #28260](https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap/issues/28260), which was a documentation fix. Making commit soon.

