---
layout: post
title: Week 8
---

# Cathedral and the Bazaar Software Development Models

The cathedral model is like a traditional organizational model with different levels of users and developers. This seperation in hierarchy also creates different roles for each level, where only a small group develops, and designs the final product. As only a small group develops the product, this creates a top-down distribution model which creates release schedules. A release schedule of a product usually is meant to be large development releases in a certain cadence.

The bazaar model still has users and developers of different skill levels, but instead of having a core of developers on the core project, everyone can contribute to the project. This method of distributing the development work on all interested parties creates a natural selection, where skilled people will self-select to work on areas of their own expertise. The open-ness of the bazaar model also allows users and co-developers in the project can provide feature suggestions, and in some cases even provide the code to implement suggestions. The open code contribution allows for all types of users and developers in any skill level to contribute. These factors the are from the open collaboration in the bazaar model allows for frequent releases to keep the released code base as up to date, so users and contributors can edit the latest code.

I personally prefer the bazaar model, as the open contribution model allows for people to be experts in their own fields to contribute. This allows for better code to be produced because code would likely be higher quality. The bazaar model also allows for users and developers to have a voice in the direction of development. The voices provide a guide for future development and keep users and developers commited and invested in the project. 

# Lessons
I personally really liked the idea of lessons 8 and 12. They point out quirks in development that happen. In the bazaar model (most open source), once a project has a sufficiently large community, issues get understood and fixed quickly. The other lesson, just points out why our code will always be bad initally, we just never understand the question being asked.

> Lesson 8. Given a large enough beta-tester and co-developer base, almost every problem will be characterized quickly and the fix obvious to someone.
I see lesson 8, as saying a project once large enough will have enough different persepectives and backgrounds that any issue or problem will quickly be understood, and can be quickly resolved. There is no single person that has to deal with all the issues, instead people will self-select in their core competencies. This self-selection will allow testers/developers to be able to contribute to issues that they have a solid grounding in. This lesson also implies how understanding issues, and creating fixes doesn't need to be from the same person. The self-selection in competencies allows for some to understand the existing fault, and for others to develop code that mitigates the issue.

Also the comment about how this could be though of as paralleling debugging is somewhat true, and this statement is resiliency. The self-selection and large enough varied viewpoints allows for multiple angles on bugs, allowing for some user to understand the issue in the fault. The relilency uses Linux as an example, and how there hasn't been an amalgamation of unexplainable bugs that have hindered development.

> Lesson 12. Often, the most striking and innovative solutions come from realizing that your concept of the problem was wrong. 
I see lesson 12, as a very true part of my own life. Many times, the best solution, or version of my code is a last minute complete code rewrite, as my earlier solution relied on a janky understanding of the problem with untrue assumtions. The lesson points to how sometimes we as programmers don't even fully understand the problem our code was trying to solve. This partial understanding results in our code only being a partial solution to the problem at hand, because at this point, our code is trying to resolve differnet cases of the problem with different assumtion cases. But once we actually understand the complete problem at hand, we can create a much better solution to the problem, that eventaully works in all cases with no janky workarounds or assumtions.

# Free vs Open
They are similar in the send both camps have their code bases out in the free world, and in both cases the code is licenses and able to be freely run.

Looking into differences, __free__ aims to provide freedom to users, whereas __open__ aims to provide access to users. I see __free__ as allowing people to do whatever they want with the existing code. In costrast to __open__ which I see as allowing people to get open access to the code, but still have limitations to exactly to what is actually allowed in the final compilation or deployment or redistribution of the product.

I see __free__ as being as close to public domain as possible, as there is freedom to do anything, but there are also no limitations against what you can do with the code.

I see __open__ as being as accessible openly by anyone (like an open door), but there may be specific limitations or stipulations in the license or build that prevent some exact use or distribution cases. Also, open projects can also be incorperated in non-open solutions if allowed by the license.

I think the argument is a bit absurd, but personally I find that I have more issues with the __free__ camp than the __open__ camp. The aim for freedom in code is admirable, but in creating __free__ code, the license aims to keep the code __free__. This recursive __free__-dom (in GNU) to me creates an internal contradiction to their arguement, as the code is not truely __free__ for me to do whatever I want, as I must keep the derivative work under the same copy-left license. 

In constrast to the __open__ source licensing and access model, the variety of licenses allows for many different situations. There are super freedom licenses like MIT which allow for work to be redistributed in nearly any way, to "semi-open" licenses like the Redis Community License which creates limitations in obtaining and deploying their open source products.

# Team Project Progress
I have worked on improved the Blockly demo documentation, and resolving issues. I worked with a team member to create the final project, as I lacked the software to create an icon. But, this pull request has been incorperated. 

My team is working on filling back up our issue list, as the rest of our team has cleared out the inital batch of target issues. I also would like to dive deeper in the actual JS that powers Blockly.

I am considering working on making a more in-depth contribution guide, but based on the project background, personally and my group have reservations about doing so, as the existing contribution guide is hosted on an internal Google webpage, and is not actually a part of the project repository.

