---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---


# Open Source
## What do YOU think about when you hear the term "open source"? 
I think of publicly available code projects, that work from powering some backbones of the internet (Linux OS), to being alternatives to price-y software (OpenOffice), to  even being better options on specialized hardware (DD-WRT, which happens to be based on Linux).

## What are some advantages of open vs. closed source?
Open source software can have more people working on a project than a single company or entity. This allows for a better security, collaboration, and community potential. This allows for open source software to develop into very strong products, like DD-WRT for networking. As the collective open source community at times can have more resources and capability of a single company developing products.

## what are some potential problems with open source?
Open source software usually comes as-is, with no warranty for the product. Meaning the user is responsible for any issues or faults that arise from the open source project. Also, if a project has a small community, without a means to commercialize, getting support or updates may take much longer than a commercial product.

## why did you decide to register for a class about open source software development?
I want to get better at general software development. Also, I want to understand open source better as a business model, like how there is a much stronger desire for companies to "invest" in open source. Especially with MS's purchase of GitHub, IBM's purchase of RedHat, and Google's "heavy" hand some open source projects, like Android, Chromium (now soon to be the backbone of MS's Edge). 

# Projects
1. I use an Android smartphone. Had I not used Android, the current smartphone alternative would be iOS by Apple. (Can I count MS Windows Phone as an alternative? Or is it truely dead?)

I use Android, as when I first got my first smartphone, I had shone away from Apple, as a "walled garden" was quite offputting. Furthermore the assortment of options at the time, really drove me to Android. And, after 6?ish upgrades later, I still am using an Android smartphone.

2. I use Chrome/Firefox as my primary web browser. Chrome is based on the opensource Chromium project. Whereas Firefox is an opensource project. The current (right now) alternative is IE, and Edge both by Microsoft, and Vivaldi, which is techinally based on Chromium, but modified significatly, as Vivali runs like an App on top of Chromium, where the APP does processing akin to old Opera (current Opera runs on Chromium). On non-Windows platforms, alternatives would also include UC Browser by Alibaba, and Safari by Apple (which happens to be on WebKit). (So, the current browser market is really WebKit (which is the base of Chromium), vs Gecko (Firefox), which both happen to be opensource).

I currently use Chrome, as the Google services integration has been very very convinent since 2011. But, lately Chrome's API's seem to be changing negatively affecting some of my extensions. Therefore I would likely switch the Firefox, once the API changes are made to an early test form of Chrome. As I has been using Firefox on and off, for periods of time when Chrome gets cookie/caching problems. Also Firefox was my favorite browser in my childhood (like 2008-2011).

3. I use DD-WRT for my networking equipment software. DD-WRT is a replacement for the OS that runs on routers, that is based on Linux. DD-WRT competes with other open source router firmwares like Tomato, and Open-WRT, as well as the original equipement vendor operating systems, which also happen to be based on Linux ususally.

I use DD-WRT as the OS on routers, the DD-WRT allows for the hardware to be fully utilized, and network wide features can be enabled at the router instead on every device. Some examples include network wide VPNs, blocking, forwarding, and resource allocation, without the need for actual degraded service, or even caps/limits that may be much lower of original OSes that ship on networking equipment.

4. I use Wordpress as a part of my work in Web Design. Wordpress allows for people to easily add content and blog posts to websites. Wordpress acts as a Content Management Service above all, and this typically allows for easy updates and transitions. Wordpress itself competes with other CMS systems like Joomla, Drupal, Expression Engine, as well as normal HTML/CSS/JS/NODE. 

I use Wordpress in my work, when aiming to overhaul an existing site, working to maintain a site, restore functionality, remove errors, and to fix irregularties that the Wordpress CMS couldn't rectify itself. As a user, and being knowedgeable in HTML/CSS, many times I would prefer to use real code for the infinitely greater flexibility in design. As well as the optimizations that can be gained on pages that do not need user-dynamic content. But, as a company we may settle for Wordpress for clients to be able to edit their site easily, instead of being completely confused. 
