---
layout: post
title: Week 9
---

# Given Lessons
> "Often, the most striking and innovative solutions come from realizing that your concept of the problem was wrong."

I see this lesson trying to point out how we never fully understand a problem at the beginning. Rather, as we work to solve the problem do we start to understand the intricacies of solving the problem. So, our original concept of the problem will change as we solve the problem. And often times, we often we only get a great solution to the problem when we have fully understood the problem. Which might only happen after we have tried to attack the problem with a narrow mindset.

Personally, I think this lesson is very true. We might solve a problem naively, or with a small test case. Once we get our first iteration of solution correct, we might learn more about the problem, which might change our perspective about how to solve the problem. This build-reflect-rebuild feedback loop is true in my own experince, and reinforces the point that the most striking and innovative solutions come from a realization that our previous concept of the problem was incorrect.

> "When your language is nowhere near Turing-complete, syntactic sugar can be your friend."

I see this lesson trying to point how programmers don't just have a job of solving problems, we also need to be great communicators. When we develop some sort of language for some system like an API, we might only need specalized functions and actions to be executed. We could aim for (size) efficiency in our code by naming our created functions a, b, c, etc. But, this makes programming very difficult, and would drive away others. Because a Turning-complete language is meant to be able to solve any problem, but our language is meant to solve a much narrower problem. The restricted-ness of our language and use, means we should at least provide syntactic sugar, or human readable naming for our language and terminology. With human readable elements and naming, we create an interface (or language) that is useable, and might spur further development by others.

Personally, I think this lesson is persistent, and almost runs in the background of software development. We might only need a small group of functions (and terminonlogy) to be created. If we aim too hard for efficiency, we make the code needlessly difficult to reuse, or adapt. This syntactic sugar allows others to reuse, and even develop atop our original creation. This is especially true in group code projects, as clear typing and naming in general is very important.

# Additional Lesson (#3)
> "Plan to throw one version away; you will, anyhow."

I see this lesson as pointing out how we will always be rewriting and remaking our code. When we start a project, the code we eventually release will be radically different from our first original attempt and even times, the first working prototype. The lesson tries to implant this idea, so when programmers eventually face a wall, it is acceptable to start from a different clean slate.

Personally, I think this lesson is frequently true. When we first make an implementation, we just want our code to work. As we develop our original code, we may want to add/implement features, that might just be small additions. Eventually the number of small additions becomes very large, and starts to clutter our code, and occasionally just can no longer be stretched any farther. These instances present a roadblock that force us to reflect on the problem, and allow us to realize a more optional direction or solution that we can now take because of our understanding from implementing and solving the problem previously.

# Team Project Progress
I stated working to implement a [requested feature that adds some syntatic sugar](https://github.com/google/blockly/issues/1593)! I have finished implementing it in our local development branch, but I want to make sure the additional function will work as expected (test cases), as this feature if implemented would likely deprecate a previously used fuction. And also want to make sure there are no other parts of the project that depend on the original function.