---
layout: post
title: Week 10
---

# Kevin Fleming Talk
The concept that Bloomberg contributes back into open source is something I didn't expect, but thinging through seems interesting. I expected a company to want to keep its secret sauce as close to itself, especially like code modifications to improve or integrate different software tools. But, the arguement to contribute the imporvements back to open source, allows for Bloomberg to not have to maintain their own fork. Rather, since the changes are part of the open source project now, the community will keep maintaining it, and even possibly improve the original contribution. 

I was surpised by the resiliency and speed the Bloomberg aims for. A Bloomberg news serach query can be fairly long (in MB), and I was surpised by how fast Bloomberg aims to make fresh market data available. Just to read and parse such a long query can take a few ms, and being able to respond in less than 200 ms is surpising. Especially when pinging data can take 1-100ms depending on connection quality. It really puts into perspective how reliency and speed to scale (up servers) should be at. Also since, Bloomberg's own message volumes are very burst-y, but are so quick that using cloud scale wouldn't be resonsive enough. Cloud still takes time to spin-up, but by the time the servers are up, the demand would have abated already. 

# Personal Progress on Team Project
I finished the first draft of a fairly large proposal addition. It creates a function to enable a block, which does the opposite of the existing function that disables a block. This works in the opposite way to what was there previously, as disable(false) is a bit weirder than enable(true). 

I did learn about logic puzzles in javascript, and how difficult they can be, like `setDisabled(disabled == 'true' || disabled == 'disabled');`, where the arguement to that function was just a boolean. It really brought me back to hand tracing the logic for that arguement, to be able to translate  the argument into the inverse correctly.

Also, I did learn a bit more about how to run tests on blockly, and seem to be better at getting the hang of it.

I am now working on more polish on my code addition to the live PR to hopefully get it accepted. And looking forward, I want to try to find a larger issue we can work together on, and also just issues that I can try to attempt to resolve.