---
layout: post
title: Week 7
---


# Personal Progress On Team Project
## What I Have Done
I have worked on understanding what blockly is, and worked on looking at issues that I can handle. 

I have already made one pull request, that got accepted, on the project to resolve an issue about a Dath math generator implementation pulling from the wrong library.

## What I Learnt
I learnt about how Blockly works and how to contribute to it, as the contribution guide could be more clear especially about where to contribute and how to actually develop and where to push changes. I also learnt how to start running some generator tests for Blockly, as this Google project, still requires Firefox to test. (Chrome doesn't actually work for script loading).

## Next Week
Looking forward to the next week, I would like to resolve more issues, whether code clean up or actual additions to documentation, as I start to understand more and more of how blockly works.

# Wikipedia
I think the people to contribute to Wikipedia have interests in the subject they are contributing about, have a motive to contribute, like marketing/advertising, personal gain, or just to help people.

I think I might become a regular contributor to Wikipedia one day because I can help provide information and sources to back up my findings in some niche topics that I am interested in.

I will select the articles to contribute for the class mainly from articles that need cleanup that only have small minor issues like formatting and links, that don't need me to be well versed in the subject matter.

# TED Talk
It is refreshing to hear about Bush-Kerry, and how politics used to be. But, the description of the Wikipedia structure seems to be very similar to modern Wikipedia community. 

My only concern is abount the effort needed to maintain pages (free of vandalism). From 2005 to today, the internet and content on it has grown exponentially*, and I feel that the amount of edits to the Wikipedia base is so great, that the amount of effort needed to police all edits to be too much for a group of volunteers to do.

Looking past the explosion of the Internet, its the goal of the Wikimedia foundation seems to be more than just providing everyone an encyclopedia, as the Wikimedia Foundation now has many more branches like Wikidata, Wikinews, and MediaWiki. 

*[Source](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_traffic) <sub>Yes, I am using Wikipedia as a source.</sub>
