---
layout: post
title: Week 13
---

# Group Project Updates
It seems like there was a change to Travis CI, so like all the tests are failing now. Or, rather tests fail pseudo-randomly, and most of the Blockly team doesn't seem to know what to so in regards to it. 

I tried to submit a code cleanup fix to make xml loads asynchronous, but working async-ly makes loads even longer (but less resource intensive), and really fails Travis CI badly.

Also, I tried to test locally, but I have been having issue after issue in getting the testing scripts to work locally. Infact now, I get 3 types of errors, one being eslint from just git, and two issues being modules or files being unable to be found or loaded to run the testing script.

Also, I did spend a large chunk of time making our presentation presentable, and for that I am happy, especially how beautiful our slides came out. 

Hopefully after the testing scripts and my PR get accepted I can look at RTL again and might be able to find a clean resolution to my partial solution, which currently works, mostly, sometimes.

Looking forward, I hope to be able to see or even possibly help to resolve the tidal wave of testing errors (Travis CI) on the project, as many (perfectly fine) builds are now failing.

# Events
I also went to the OSI event. It was interesting to actually hear the benefits for business in open sourcing their software. I completely missed the point that maintainence on the code base iteself is a cost. And, having a community support and build it allows for cost reductions. It actually makes me reconsider the value of keeping code private. In many cases it seems that it is worth while to make code opensource. Also, just to fill in, that annoying male at the event was pretty annoying. I don't really think that private/public cloud certifications have much to do with open source software. Especially as it seems that there are now strong battle lines drawn with redis/amazon. Also, I am in the camp that certifications can be useful, but a proper github is much more valuable.