---
layout: post
title: Week 11
---

# Group Project

This wekk I finailly finished my PR on adding a setEnabled feature into Blockly. The PR was a bit larger than I expected, as there were many downstream and upstream changes necessary to make the code less messy. It did take a bit longer than expected to complete, but that was from the other changes necesary to make the additions and future downstream development using this feature simpler and easier to understand.

Looking forwards, we finally got correspondence back from Blockly, about a larger issue that we could work together on. Our group seems to have leaned on implementing modals for adding variables.

# Personal Contributions

I made some more Wikipedia edits, and want to keep finishing the technology areas, as it seems that there is a lack of information that should be added in. Especailly when compared to other niche wikis like WikiChip. 

# Meetups

Some of my group partners in Blockly, and I decided to attend an event called Open Hacker Hours, hosted by the New York Linux Users Group. The entire event was very very awkward. First, the main hosts of the event didn't show up. Another factor was how one of the attendees seemed to have commandeered the leadership position, and had a strong anti-establishment tilt. He seemed to have a beef with nearly every distro of Linux (like Mint, Ubuntu, Debian, and Red Hat). But, my personaly highlight of the oddities in the event, was one attendee was seeking help in hacking in to a social media account. The group wanted to help in recovering an owned account, but not actually commit anything illegal, like hijacking someone else's account.